# Data Modeling with Postgres
In this project, we apply Data Modeling with Postgres and build an ETL pipeline using Python. A startup wants to analyze the data they've been collecting on songs and user activity on their new music streaming app. Currently, they are collecting data in json format and the analytics team is particularly interested in understanding what songs users are listening to.

## Datasets

#### Song Dataset
It's a subset of real data from [Million Song Dataset](https://labrosa.ee.columbia.edu/millionsong/). Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID.

Sample Data:
```
{"num_songs": 1, "artist_id": "ARJIE2Y1187B994AB7", "artist_latitude": null, "artist_longitude": null, "artist_location": "", "artist_name": "Line Renaud", "song_id": "SOUPIRU12A6D4FA1E1", "title": "Der Kleine Dompfaff", "duration": 152.92036, "year": 0}
```

#### Log Dataset
The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this  [event simulator](https://github.com/Interana/eventsim)  based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings.

The log files in the dataset are partitioned by year and month. 

Sample Data: 

    {"artist":null,"auth":"Logged In","firstName":"Walter","gender":"M","itemInSession":0,"lastName":"Frye","length":null,"level":"free","location":"San Francisco-Oakland-Hayward, CA","method":"GET","page":"Home","registration":1540919166796.0,"sessionId":38,"song":null,"status":200,"ts":1541105830796,"userAgent":"\"Mozilla\/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_9_4) AppleWebKit\/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome\/36.0.1985.143 Safari\/537.36\"","userId":"39"}

## Schema for Song Play Analysis

#### Fact Table
songplays - records in event data associated with song plays. Columns for the table:

    songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent

#### Dimension Tables
##### users

    user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level

##### songs

    song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration

##### artists

    artist_id, name, location, lattitude, longitude

##### time

    start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday
